I am Alexander Graham Bell
born in 1847 in Edinburgh,
United Kingdom. I was a Scottish-born
American scientist and inventor,
most famous for my pioneering work
on the development of the telephone.
My father and grandfather were both
authorities on elocution and at the age of
16 I began researching the mechanics of speech.
In 1870, I emigrated with my family to Canada,
and the following year I moved to the United
States to teach. There, I pioneered a system
called visible speech, developed by my
father, to teach deaf-mute children.
In 1872, I founded a school in Boston to train
teachers of the deaf. The school subsequently
became part of Boston University, where I was
appointed professor of vocal physiology in 1873.
I had long been fascinated by the idea of
transmitting speech, and by 1875, had come up with
a simple receiver that could turn electricity into
sound. Others were working along the same lines,
including an Italian-American Antonio Meucci, and
debate continues as to who, should be credited
with inventing the telephone. However, I was
granted a patent for the telephone in 1876 and
it developed quickly. Within a year the first
telephone exchange was built in Connecticut
and the Bell Telephone Company was created in
1877, with me owning a third of the shares.
In 1880, I was awarded the French Volta Prize
for my invention and with the money, founded the
Volta Laboratory in Washington, where I continued
experiments in communication, in medical research,
and in techniques for teaching speech to the
deaf, working with Helen Keller among others.
In 1888, I became one of the founding
members of the National Geographic Society,
and served as its president from 1896 to
1904, also helping to establish its journal.
I died in 1922 while spending
my life helping citizens of the
world hear each other regardless of the
distance. Concentrate all your thoughts
upon the work in hand. The Sun's rays
do not burn until brought to a focus.